All right, so congratulations.
We have reached the end of another course section.
So, as always, let's review the concepts that we learned in this section.
There was quite a lot of content to absorb, so this section was focused on the View X Library.
It's a totally separate library from the Core View Library, which focuses on the view layer, but it's
part of the larger view ecosystem and that is developed by the same team of core contributors.
So what is View X?
It's a library for managing global state, and when we say state, we simply mean data.
What does it mean that that data is global?
It means that it extends beyond one component.
It has data that multiple components rely on or care about.
So an example from our app was the user's logged in status.
Typically, that's a piece of information that many different components or parts of the UI will care
about.
When it updates, we want to alert many different components.
And so when you have that kind of problem, you can solve it by moving that data to view X.
When view X updates its state, then that change reflects in all of the components that are reading
from that view X State.
All right.
So another example we might cite is something like dark mode or the language of the app.
Basically, anything that is data that multiple components rely on, it's a good idea to move it to
view U.S..
Okay, how do we create a View X store?
We use the create store function from View X.
We did this in the index file of our store folder and a store is just the technical library term for
the object that is going to be managing our state, our global data.
Now that create store function accepts a configuration object and that's where we configure how the
store is going to work.
So we started off with a state method where we return an object that represents the view X store's initial
starting state.
So we just define simple properties and their initial values, and then we can modify that state by
issuing mutations to the View Store.
The way we define our available mutations is by defining that mutations object in the configuration
object that we passed to the create store function.
And a mutation is just a simple JavaScript method that receives one argument, and that is the current
store state and the body of the method takes the store state and it modifies it.
So it may take an existing property, for example, and give it a new value.
That's exactly what we did with the is logged in the property with our log in user mutation.
The word mutate means to change and that's exactly what we're doing.
We're changing the existing store state.
Why do we use mutations?
We do it because we want to limit the available scope or boundary or ways that any component can update
the store state.
We want our state changes to be predictable and trackable.
We don't want any component to be able to just reach into our View Store State and rename a property
or delete a property, etc. We want to isolate all of our operations to a single file.
We want them all to be together and we want to prevent the components that are talking to the store
from doing anything accidental.
So you can almost think of mutations as creating a smaller set of possible operations so that we can
only modify the view store state in a predictable fashion.
And it's important to do that because now we are really having, you know, global data that may have
a lot of impact throughout the app.
It's not just limited to one component.
A mistake in the store can all of a sudden cause many different components to work incorrectly.
So we want to be very careful with what we prohibit, and that's why we have mutations.
That's where that design standard comes from.
Okay, how do we run a mutation?
We do so by invoking the commit method on a view store and we pass it a string with the mutation name.
We will run that mutation method, which of course will alter the store state.
Okay, so from any given component, how do we do this?
Well, luckily, Vue X adds a dollar sign store property to every Vue component in the app.
This is the exact same thing that Vue router does where it adds the dollar sign route and dollar sign
router properties.
It's basically a property that every component has and the dollar sign store property is the same store
object that we export from our indexed GST file in store.
We could technically import that store object in the script section of our component and use it, but
that of course is redundant and requires a lot of importing.
That's why the View X team did this design decision.
So every component now has access to the store and it can do whatever it wants, it can read from it,
it can send a mutation to right to it, etc..
So speaking of reading from the View X Store, we typically read using a computed property within the
actual Vue component.
The reason we use a computed property is because that represents derived data or data that is dependent
on something else.
Our View X Store sort of becomes our global source of truth for that data.
So we're sort of just borrowing that data for the purposes of our component to display it or to use
it.
So that's why we put it in the computer section of our individual component.
It doesn't make sense to put it in data because it's not part of the components innate original data.
It's a derived piece of data that we're sort of mirroring or copying from the original view store.
Right.
And we know the benefit of all this is views powerful reactivity system.
So when the View Store updates a property, if a component is using it in any fashion, whether it's
rendering it to the DOM or it's using it in something like a VRF conditional or it's iterating over
it in a V for a directive.
As long as the store state updates, any component that relies on a given property will be informed
of that change and then we'll re render to incorporate that latest change in global state.
Okay.
So we started out by writing these computer are computed functions as well as methods that would issue
mutations in individual components.
And that's a totally fine approach.
But we do have some helper functions that help make the process a lot easier by reducing the total amount
of code that we have to write.
So for example, if we need to read five different properties on our View X Store instead of defining
five computed methods in our component, we can use something like the maps state helper function.
What it does is it creates component properties on our individual view component that map or connect
to view state properties.
Typically we're going to give those component properties the exact same name as those properties have
on the View X Store.
So in our example we had the property of is logged in and makes sense to use that exact same property
name.
So by simply using the map state helper function and passing an array with that string of is logged
in, what the function did for us is create that component property automatically.
So then our component has had access to is logged in on the this keyword so it can use it in-line exactly
as if it were a regular data property on the component.
So map state is is not required, but it makes things simpler.
It requires you to write less code.
It is a shortcut to instead of manually defining multiple computed properties.
It does all of that for you.
And of course the complementary helper function is map mutations.
What it does is it makes you have to write less component methods that issue views storm mutations.
What Matt mutations does is it automatically creates methods that invoke specific mutations.
So for example, we had the log in user mutation and we, we used that mutations and we passed in that
mutation.
And so then we automatically had access to a log in user method within our individual component where
we used mapped mutations.
So behind the scenes view X still follows the same protocol.
It takes the store, it invokes the commit method on the store and it gives it the mutation name that
it expects.
However, it's obviously a shortcut because instead of having to define, for example, three different
methods that each invoke a different mutation, we can use the map mutations helper, give it an array
with those mutation names and automatically have three methods defined for us with a simple line, single
line of code.
As a reminder, both maps, state and map mutations return objects, reactive objects with either reactive
methods on them.
So we have to make sure that we do structure those properties, those nested methods into our original
component constructs, such as the computed properties or the methods.
So don't just invoke map mutations or map state.
Make sure you use that triple dot sequence before it to properly get it to work.
All right.
Let's talk about testing as we saw a few stories.
State method and mutations are things that use plane JavaScript constructs.
They use regular JavaScript objects, regular JavaScript methods.
So all of this is to say we can test those ideas in isolation without worrying about how the View store
uses it in the internals.
So for example, a mutation is just a method that takes a single parameter that represents the store
state and then it does something to it.
It, for example, modifies the value of a property in order to test that.
CoreLogic We don't need a view store.
We just need to invoke the mutation, give it a sample argument to represent that parameter and make
sure that it does the right thing in that method body right?
So in other words, we can simply invoke the appropriate state method or mutation method and simply
test its return value ingest.
Right?
We later on feed these contracts into the create store function because Vue needs them in order to do
its internals in view.
But our tests shouldn't care about that.
Our test can keep things simple and just focus on what the mutation methods are supposed to do by themselves.
They're basically just methods that change properties and objects, right?
We can test that without having to involve the UX and making things more complicated.
What about testing on components?
Well, we saw earlier that components can use a real view X door.
We can create a view X store and we can provide it in every test.
But my preference is to make things simpler and less co-dependent on Vue X by simply using a mock object,
a simpler, more lightweight JavaScript object that can play the role of a view store that has everything
we need to be able to emulate a view store without being the real thing.
And that way we can customize it more.
We don't have to know about the deep internals of how UCS works.
We don't need to open ourselves up to the possibility that view X will fail.
We don't know at that point where the error occurred.
We limit the scope to simply testing our component, its responsibilities and its communications with
View X rather than having to involve the actual library in our test suite.
It also, by the way, speeds up how our tests run because we're using simpler JavaScript objects instead
of the more complex view X store object.
So the JavaScript objects should hold the properties methods that your component uses from the real
back store.
But you don't need the actual view.
Object.
That is my opinion.
You might talk to other developers who disagree because they might argue that a real view store resembles
the real world more accurately.
At that point, it just becomes a matter of opinion and debate.
All right.
And if we want to use that mock approach, we need to replace that dollar sign store property that is
available on every component.
And we do that using the global marks property in the configuration object that we pass as a second
argument to our Mount Shallow Mount functions from view test utils.
And again, as we saw, if you have a lot of common configuration such as building up that configuration
object, what we can do is simplify the test setup by extracting a lot of that configuration to factory
functions and then simply having each test specify the properties that matter for that specific test.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this section.
The next section, we're going to continue learning more about the various features in view.
It's a very powerful library and we still got lots to cover.
So I hope you're excited and I will see you in the next section.